---
tags: [fitness]
title: "Race Report: 2022 NYC Marathon"
---


#### Summary

* **What:** [2022 TCS New York City Marathon](https://www.nyrr.org/tcsnycmarathon)
* **When:** Sunday, November 6, 2022
* **Where:** New York, NY
* **Distance:** Run 26.2M
* **Strava:** <https://www.strava.com/activities/8080096123>
* **Finish time:** [7:00:41](https://results.nyrr.org/event/M2022/result/20871)

#### Discussion

Back in November, Christine and I ran the 2022 TCS New York City Marathon. It
was, and will forever be, one of the proudest moments of my life. The race was
tough, but we were tougher. Christine was incredible. She did it - we did it.

This post will be mostly pictures, but first, a few notes:

- We qualified for the race via the New York Road Runners (NYRR) 9+1 program,
which gives guaranteed entry to anyone who completes nine - and volunteers at
one - NYRR-hosted races the year prior. This was a great option for us, and
somehow we managed to fulfill the requirements despite starting in September. (I
think we had to run pretty much every single race between then and the end of
the year.)

- I came down with a cold (the Flu?) the Friday before the race. COVID test was
negative. I spent most of Saturday desperately trying cure my congestion and
headache, but to no avail. I went to bed that night unsure if I'd be able to
run the following morning. I woke up feeling quite sickly but decided to just
suck it up, put on a smile, and make the best of it. I felt a bit better as the
day went on, but my heart rate was definitely elevated and I had to blow my
nose every 15-30 minutes. I like to think I finished the marathon on hard mode.

- Christine and I felt an overwhelming amount of support throughout the race.
Thank you to everyone who cheered us on: Amanda, Dave, Joanne, Jenna, Brendan,
Jessica, Rory, Shea, Maggie, Joe, Wil, Mary-Beth, Julia, Christina, Erin,
Jackie, Marissa, and Mr. & Mrs. Castoro. We couldn't have done it without you!


<div>

{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8741.jpg"
  caption="Holding our bibs at the race expo - we got this!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8721.jpg"
  caption="Naturally, the expo had a whole section dedicated the course.
  Here's the elevation profile. There was also a wall of monitors
  timelapse videos of the entire race. It was great for preparing ourselves,
  mentally, for what we were about to undertake."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8735.jpg"
  caption="On the way out of the expo, there was a wall filled with post-it
  notes of words of encouragement."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8751.jpg"
  caption="Morning of, catching the 5 train to the ferry"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8755.jpg"
  caption="Waiting at the ferry terminal"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8760.jpg"
  caption="There was a police escort for the ferry. We have places to be, people!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8763.jpg"
  caption="Waiting at the starting line, moments before the race"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8765.jpg"
  caption="Aaaand they're off!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/848950_1234_0034.jpg"
  caption="Christine and I used to drive over the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge
  twice per week, back when she was taking classes at the College of Staten
  Island. It was so cool to run over it - definitely took me back!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8781.jpg"
  caption="We were in one of the last waves, so by the time we made it to the
  aid stations, the roads were littered with paper cups. Torwards the end of the
  race, the cups turned into slippery sludge. Crazy!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8785.jpg"
  caption="Somewhere in Brooklyn. Who knows the spot?"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8789.jpg"
  caption="Some parts of Brooklyn were especially packed. I'm talking crowds of
  people all shouting and cheering us on. The energy was absolutely electric. I
  wish I had as much encouragement every time I went out for a run!"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8799.jpg"
  caption="This picture gives you a sense of the scale of the aid stations. You
  can also see some sludge."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8805.jpg"
  caption="Halfway there and almost to Queens! Funny story: another runner
  offered us some food on this bridge. I swear to god, he was wearing a
  trench coat, and he opened it up to reveal a sandwich bag of mystery
  gummies. We politely declined. (It's possible I'm embellishing some of the
  details.)"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8807.jpg"
  caption="\"Welcome to Queens!\" Thank you, my man, thank you."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8812.jpg"
  caption="\"Ohana means family, and family means nobody is left behind or
  forgotten.\" Or left to run a marathon without copious amounts of snacks and
  words of encouragement."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8825.jpg"
  caption="This Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge into Manhattan was the longest,
  quietest bridge of the entire race. The crowds were absent and, at fifteen
  miles in, most everyone around us was pooped. Thankfully and hilariously,
  there was a volunteer with a megaphone heckling racers at about the halfway
  point. I got a huge kick out of his dad humor."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8834.jpg"
  caption="First Avenue in Manhattan. See what I meant about sludge?"
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8854.jpg"
  caption="Mile 19, on our way to the Bronx. This is when it started to get
  really hard."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8870.jpg"
  caption="It's difficult to see - I wish I got a better picture - but there's a
  person on the right holding a sign that says, \"LAST DAMN BRIDGE\". Thank you
  to whoever that was; we needed that."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8882.jpg"
  caption="Sweat, gatorade, water from the sprinkler - probably a mixture."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8887.jpg"
  caption="I love this photo. It perfectly captures both the scene in Central
  Park and my brain at the moment I took it: blurry."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8897.jpg"
  caption="Only a little bit left. It's hard to describe how I felt in this
  moment. Somewhere between exhilarated and relieved."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/849033_1465_0031.jpg"
  caption="Officially finished. I think I kept my hands in the air for another
  20 yards."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/IMG_8899.jpg"
  caption="Moments after crossing the finish line. I honestly don't know how,
  but we each somehow squeezed out a smile."
  width=720
%}
{% include figure.html
  src="/assets/images/2022-nyc-marathon/849017_1810_0010.jpg"
  caption="\"Love does not consist gazing at each other, but in looking outward
  together in the same direction.\" (More or less.)"
  width=720
%}

</div>
