---
title: "Dear Loved One"
---

I've been thinking a lot since we spoke this morning. You're right: I shouldn't
have acted holier than thou. Sorry about that. Here's what I was trying to
convey:

I'm sure it's obvious, but a bunch of people (myself included) are really hurt
that Trump got elected again. To me, he represents the worst parts of society
and it stings that the people I care about endorsed him. You really mean to tell
me that a bully, a felon, a cheater, an abuser, and a racist got elected...
again?! And that's not to mention all of the ways the people that I love might
be affected by his party's policies---things like women's reproductive rights,
funding for education, affordable health care, climate change, etc.

I understand it's nuanced and that I don't have the whole picture. I realize
that we have different opinions of him due to differences in our information
diets. And I acknowledge that people on the other side of the aisle have very
real and valid concerns.

But it stinks nonetheless. You taught me to be a good person. To do the right
thing, even when it's hard. To have empathy for others. To want to enrich the
lives of the people that I love. To stand up for people who don't have a voice.
To debate with substance, not name-calling. To celebrate diversity and teamwork.
To listen, to think critically. To be curious about different ideas and
perspectives. To believe that other people are inherently good, even when I
disagree with them.

When I look at Trump, I see none of those qualities. And to know that the people
I love voted for him feels a bit like finding out Santa isn't real. It's
heartbreaking, in a way.

Of course, our relationship is bigger than politics.
But the wound is still raw and it's going to take a long time to heal.
